Adds some highlevel docs for Cumulus (#54)
paritytech/cumulus: docs/overview.md

> # Cumulus overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Cumulus Overview
```

I will be nitpicky/opinionated with my review, feel free to take what you like.
 
Sections/Title headers usually follow https://titlecase.com/, which means most letters are capitalized.

This document provides high-level documentation for Cumulus.

## Runtime

Each Substrate blockchain provides a runtime. The runtime is the state transition function of the

> blockchain. Cumulus provides interfaces and extensions to convert a default Substrate runtime into a

Reviewer: Is "default" the word we want to use here?

Do we mean any runtime built with FRAME, or are the requirements more extreme?

Author: Changed it to `Substrate FRAME runtime`

> blockchain. Cumulus provides interfaces and extensions to convert a default Substrate runtime into a

Author: ```suggestion
blockchain. Cumulus provides interfaces and extensions to convert a Substrate FRAME runtime into a
```

> Parachain runtime. Polkadot expects that each runtime exposes an interface for validating a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parachain runtime. Polkadot expects each runtime exposes an interface for validating a
```

> Parachain state transition and also provides interfaces to the Parachain to send and receive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parachain's state transition and also provides interfaces for the Parachain to send and receive
```

messages of other Parachains.

> To convert a Substrate runtime into a Parachain runtime, the following code needs to be added to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert a Substrate runtime into a Parachain runtime, the following code needs to be added to the
```

runtime:
```rust
cumulus_runtime::register_validate_block!(Block, Executive);
```

This macro call expects the `Block` and `Executive` type. It generates the `validate_block` function
that is expected by Polkadot to validate the state transition.

> When compiling a Cumulus augmented runtime, a WASM binary is generated that contains the *full* code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When compiling a runtime that uses Cumulus, a WASM binary is generated that contains the *full* code
```

What does augmented mean in this context? You mean a runtime which includes cumulus?

Author: I see it as Cumulus wraps/extends a runtime. From a developer perspective, you are right and we include Cumulus.

of the Parachain runtime plus the `validate_block` functionality. This binary is required to

> register a Parachain at the relay chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
register a Parachain on the relay chain.
```

When the Parachain validator calls the `validate_block` function, it passes the PovBlock (See [Block

> building][Block building] for more information) and the parent header of the Parachain that is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
building](#block-building) for more information) and the parent header of the Parachain that is
```

> stored on the relay chain. Out of the PovBlock witness data Cumulus reconstructs the partial trie.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stored on the relay chain. From the PovBlock witness data, Cumulus reconstructs the partial trie.
```

This partial trie is used as storage while executing the block. Cumulus also redirects all storage
related host functions to use the witness data storage. After the setup is done, Cumulus calls
`execute_block` with the transactions and the header stored in the PovBlock. On success, the new

> Parachain header is returned.

Reviewer: Sorry, returned where?

Author: Made it more clear.

> Parachain header is returned.

Author: ```suggestion
Parachain header is returned as part of the `validate_block` result.
```

## Node

> A Parachain supports light-clients, full nodes and authority nodes. Authority nodes are called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parachains support light-clients, full nodes, and authority nodes. Authority nodes are called
```

Collators in the Polkadot ecosystem. Cumulus provides the consensus implementation for a
Parachain and the block production logic.

The Parachain consensus will follow the relay chain to get notified about which Parachain blocks are

> included in the relay-chain and which are finalized. Each block that is build by a Collator is send

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
included in the relay-chain and which are finalized. Each block that is built by a Collator is sent
```

to a validator that is assigned to the particular Parachain. Cumulus provides the block production

> logic makes that notifies each Collator of the Parachain to build a Parachain block. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
logic that notifies each Collator of the Parachain to build a Parachain block. The
```

notification is triggered on a relay-chain block import by the Collator. This means that every

> Collator of the Parachain can send a block to the Parachain validators. For a more sophisticated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collator of the Parachain can send a block to the Parachain validators. For more sophisticated
```

> authoring logic the Parachain will be able to use Aura, BABE etc. (Not supported at the moment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authoring logic, the Parachain will be able to use Aura, BABE etc. (Not supported at the moment)
```

A Parachain Collator will join the Parachain network and the relay-chain network. The Parachain
network will be used to gossip Parachain blocks and to gossip transactions. Collators will only

> gossip blocks to the Parachain network that are with a high chance of being included in the relay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gossip blocks to the Parachain network that have a high chance of being included in the relay
```

> chain. To proof that a block is probably going to be included, the Collator will send a long side

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
chain. To prove that a block is probably going to be included, the Collator will send a long side
```

> chain. To proof that a block is probably going to be included, the Collator will send a long side

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
chain. To proove that a block is probably going to be included, the Collator will send along side
```

the notification the so-called candidate message. This candidate message is issued by a Parachain

> validator after approving a block. This proof of possible inclusion prevents to spam other collators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
validator after approving a block. This proof of possible inclusion prevents spamming other collators
```

of the network with useless blocks.
The Collator joins the relay-chain network for two reasons. First, the Collator uses it to send the
Parachain blocks to the Parachain validators. Secondly, the Collator participates as light/full-node

> of the relay chain to be informed of new relay-chain blocks. These information will be used for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the relay chain to be informed of new relay-chain blocks. This information will be used for the
```

consensus and the block production logic.

## Block building

> Polkadot requires that a Parachain block is transmitted in a fixed format. These blocks send by a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Polkadot requires that a Parachain block is transmitted in a fixed format. These blocks are sent by a
```

Parachain to the Parachain validators are called proof-of-validity blocks (PovBlock). Such a
PovBlock contains the header and the transactions of the Parachain as opaque blobs (`Vec<u8>`). They
are opaque, because Polkadot can not and should not support all kinds of possible Parachain block
formats. Besides the header and the transactions, it also contains the witness data and the outgoing
messages.

> A Parachain validator needs to validate a given PovBlock, but without requiring the full state of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Parachain validator needs to validate a given PoVBlock, but without requiring the full state of
```

the Parachain. To still make it possible to validate the Parachain block, the PovBlock contains the
witness data. The witness data is a proof that is collected while building the block. The proof will
contain all trie nodes that are read during the block production. Cumulus uses the witness data to
reconstruct a partial trie and uses this a storage when executing the block.

The outgoing messages are also collected at block production. These are messages from the Parachain

> the block is build for to other Parachains or to the relay chain itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the block is built for to other Parachains or to the relay chain itself.
```

> ## Runtime update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Runtime Upgrade
```

> Every Substrate blockchain supports runtime updates. Runtime updates enable a blockchain to update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Substrate blockchain supports runtime upgrades. Runtime updates enable a blockchain to update
```

> the state transition function without requiring any client update. Such a runtime update is applied

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its state transition function without requiring any client update. Such a runtime upgrade is applied
```

by a special transaction in a Substrate runtime. Polkadot and Cumulus provide support for these

> runtime updates, but updating a Parachain runtime is not that easy as updating a standalone

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
runtime updates, but updating a Parachain runtime is not as easy as updating a standalone
```

> runtime updates, but updating a Parachain runtime is not that easy as updating a standalone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runtime upgrades, but updating a Parachain runtime is not as easy as updating a standalone
```

> blockchain runtime. In a standalone Parachain the special transaction needs to be included in a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
blockchain runtime. In a standalone blockchain the special transaction needs to be included in a
```

> blockchain runtime. In a standalone Parachain the special transaction needs to be included in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blockchain runtime. In a standalone blockchain, the special transaction needs to be included in a
```

block and the runtime is updated.

> A Parachain will follow the same paradigm, but the relay chain requires to be informed in front of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Parachain will follow the same paradigm, but the relay chain needs to be informed before
```

the update. Cumulus will provide functionality to notify the relay chain about the runtime update. The

> update will not be enacted directly, it takes `X` blocks (a value that is configured by the relay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
update will not be enacted directly; instead it takes `X` blocks (a value that is configured by the relay
```

> update will not be enacted directly; instead it takes `X` blocks (a value that is configured by the relay

Reviewer 4: This isn't exactly accurate - see https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/issues/825 . It'll be more like "applied after the first included parablock executed in a relay chain context X blocks from now". But that is definitely a complicated sentence for docs, so it would make sense to find a way to simplify.

chain) before the relay chain allows the update to be applied. If the update is applied before the

> waiting period is finished, the relay chain will reject the Parachain block for inclusion. The

Reviewer 4: (or if it's applied to far beyond :P )

The Cumulus Chain and Polkadot have to be perfectly synchronized for this runtime upgrade system to work.

> Cumulus runtime pallet will provide the functionality to register the runtime update and will also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cumulus runtime pallet will provide the functionality to register the runtime upgrade and will also
```

make sure that the update is applied at the correct block.

After updating the Parachain runtime, a Parachain needs to wait a certain amount of time `Y`

> (configured by the relay chain) before a new update can be applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(configured by the relay chain) before another update can be applied.
```

> The WASM blob update not only contains the Parachain runtime, it also contains the `validate_block`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The WASM blob update not only contains the Parachain runtime, but also the `validate_block`
```

(dependent clause should not have verb as it is implied here)
